UNIX
OS

MacOS is a GUI that is built on top of UNIX.

Graphical User Interface (GUI)

Interface = How we interact with the computer
    interacting with a computer in general

CLI - Command Line Interface
    we give the computer commands 
    we "run" commands (execute them)
    commands are little programs. 

Why is CLI good?
    Power and Speed
    Repeatability
    Precision
    Exlusive tools

Bash/Zsh - interpreter that runs commands , you can write programs with (shell scripting)

Bash/Zsh - end with $ (but can be changed)

You can give commands "arguments" -- eg"

COMMANDS
    Built-In Commands - commands firectly integrated in the shell. ex cd 
    Executable Programs - commands that correspond to external programs
    Functions - user defined functions. User created and saved. Can be executed like any other commands
    Alias - shortcuts for commands. They get deleted from memory when the terminal closes unless specified.

Flags = (ex -a)
    -flags are special options that give a command another options
    - most commands have tons of possible flags
    - to learn more about flags, look up the manual page for that command.
    - can group glags togehter 
        ex. ls -la //shows all files and lists permissions.
    - --help flag can bring up documentations on a command.

all good technology comes with a good instruction manual. You can read a manual with the "man" command
    - ex. $ man ls
    - shows decriptions, flags, etc.
    - brackets USUALLY denote optional entries. 
    - "q" to exit man mode. 
-----> Can customize behavior of command flags
-----> When you want to learn how to use a command, Use a man (manual) page.

Common Commands:
pwd - pring working directory (shows full file path of current directory)
code . - opens code editor in current directory
ls - list of files and directories in current directory
ls -a shows list of files including hidden files (ex .file files)
cd - takes you the desired folder 
cd .. - takes you up to the parent directory.
~ - returns to user home
touch - creates a file.
mkdir - create a directory
mv - move or rename
rmdir - remove the direct
rm - removes file
rm -r - deletes directories and all contained files.
cp - copy files (needs two arguments, can also by copied recursively -r).
cat - [argument] Prints contents of file to the terminal.
man - short for manual. Shows relavant information and flags for a command

Paths: 
/home/ryantdeist is a path 
First '/' is the top level of a machine.
a path is a representation of where a file is in the file system. 
Two Types of Paths:
    - relative path - where the file is with respect to pwd
    - absolute path - from root to current file.

TAB COLLECTION - if you hit tab key, you can see and select autocomplete options.

Can use '../../' to navigate.
cd ../ - go to parent directory
cd ../../ go to grandparent directory
cd ../some_dir goes to specific directory.

SHELL
Third Component of the CLI (Terminal and Command Line are the other two) The sheel is a program that takes the executed commands and processes them. 
Can change between shell software
Popular Shells
    - zsh
    - bash


JAVASCRIPT Hello, World!